# Kora_Final_Project
 Character creator made for FA-HAD-305P-01

The two functions in this code are the inner function characterBuilder and the outer function characterMakerInterface. The first walks the user through the character creation process with 6 parts: Type, Name, Species, Traits, Flaws, and Backstory. The entered information is saved to a global inner dictionary for that character, which is outputted by the function. The outer interface function allows users to save the character to a dictionary of character dictionaries, loop to the start to make another character if they choose, and save a json file of their characters at the end if they want to. 

Essentially, creating this program was a process of breaking down everything into its smallest possible parts at every step. Each inner dictionary component required a specific kind of handling for the desired output, and I would often simplify outside my main code in order to test out conceptual solutions before implementing them into the running code. Frequent saving and versioning, as well as creating separate cells of code in order to test bites of code solutions, was essential. Physically writing out particularly troubling and confusing parts of code was also essential to my process. 

The biggest challenge for me was the issue of adding my generated components to the dictionary key for which they were a value. For some reason, I just wasn’t understanding that I could set a variable equal to a dictionary at a certain key (ie. myVariable = myDict[“ke”y]). Once I got that little tidbit of insight, the rest of the programming went extremely easily. Other than that, the most laborious, challenging part was just running the code over and over in different combinations to find errors, and then try to come up with how to handle them. 

In programming this code, I found the following links to be helpful either for better general understanding, or solutions to specific issues:
- https://www.dataquest.io/blog/python-dictionaries/
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LTXnQdrwyrw
- https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_variables_global.asp
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/27364956/looping-back-to-specific-point-in-code
- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1155617/count-the-number-of-occurrences-of-a-character-in-a-string

I think overall, the program is pretty strong for an amateur programmer. One of the weaknesses is how messy it is - in retrospect, there were certainly some things I could have simplified into functions to be reused as needed, rather than going through the same steps each time. This doesn’t impact user experience, though, which I feel is one of the stronger points of my code; all of the user testing I did went smoothly with little to no confusion about how to proceed. The only initial complaint I had, before I adapted the user message to address it, was about traits and flaws sometimes generating duplicates; I didn’t code a way of ensuring that only never-before-offered outputs would be shown to the user, though I did handle any duplicates in the character exporting process. I also think that the program would have benefited from more opportunity for user input or generated traits, as in, giving them the choice to choose for themselves via a type box input, or to have the program generate it for them, instead of one or the other. 

Other changes I would like to explore in the future would be adding more keys to the character sub-dictionary, offering categories like hair and eye color, build, fears, dreams, associated characters, etc. I also think giving an option for a quit/kill command uniformly throughout the program (rather than just having to go through it and repeatedly say “No” to continuing options) might be nice to explore. I’m not sure if it’s possible, but embedding a download link/button for their .json file directly in the code output would be nice, too, so they don’t have to try to follow my descriptions of where to find the downloadable file, even if my users seemed to understand what I meant. 